# JS Discussion Questions

* **What's your favorite and least favorite thing about React \(or whatever framework we're using\).** 
* **What do you prefer, and when would you use: var, let, or const?**  Should understand about "**hoisting**" in function or block.  Usually best to use let/const instead of var, unless supporting old browser, because it is hoisted to the block, so reduces conflicts compared to var.  Also, modern linting rules will complain about use of var. **Problematic:** Some people may prefer to always use "const" because it is extra efficient and specific. However, that is usually a "premature optimization". Const is only a couple milliseconds faster, but carries a severe limitation - it can not be overwritten. So, this can slow down development if used always as a rule. Most variables do not need to be constants. Instead, think carefully about each variable as you create it. Use "const" only as a message, as a comment - to tell a future programmer that this variable should not be overwritten. **Also problematic:** If the person says they are aware of let/const, but still prefers to use var. This person may be stubborn about other things as well. 
* **What is the difference between arrow functions `()=>{}` and traditional old functions `function() {}`?**  `(()=>{})` is the same as `(function(){}).bind(this)`. Basically, the same context, or `this` keyword is available inside the arrow function, as on the outside of it. **Bad answer:** it's shorter, so is nicer syntax. That's it. **Extra points:** also, arrow functions can return a value without using the return statement: `(str)=>str.trim()`. This makes it even more concise! 
* **What are the benefits of `async/await`? What are its limitations?**  **Benefits:** Similar to `Promise`, but much easier to read and chain. **Limitations:** Blocks execution of rest of code. Runs synchronously. To run multiple operations, asynchronously, have to do `Promise` or `Promise.all`. 
* JavaScript Prototypes. You know, `arr.toString()`, `arr.sort()`, `obj.hasOwnProperty()`, `str.length`... What are some other examples, some from each variable type \(string, number, function, object, array\)?  arr.filter, arr.find, arr.sort, arr.reduce, arr.map, arr.forEach, arr.length set.size, set.add, set.clear, set.delete, set.has obj. 

